# Thermodynamics

Stuff: Chemistry, NCERT

- Table of Contents

Theromdyanmics - The branch of science which deals with the different forms of energy and their interconversion.

## Application of Thermodynamics in Chemistry

1. Using thermodynamics we can predict the feasibility if a chemical reaction.

    i.e. if a chemical reaction if possible or not.

2. If a reaction takes place then what are the energy changes in the reaction

    i.e. if energy is released ****or absorbed . 

3. If  in a chemical reaction equilibrium is going to attain, then what will be the equilibrium concentration of reactants and products.

## Limitations of Thermodynamics

1. It is only applicable to macroscopic particles (matter in bulk or on a system as a whole).

    $\therefore$ These laws of thermodynamics cannot be applied on individual particles.

2. Using thermodynamics we cannot calculate the time taken for the completion.

    This can be done using chemical kinetics.

# Thermodynamics Terms

## System and Surroundings

**System** - It is the part of the universe which is under thermodynamic consideration**.**

**Surroundings** - Remaining part of the universe is called Suurounding.

- Practically, surrounding is the portion of the universe which can interact with the System

$$\text{Universe = System + Surroundings}$$

**Boundary** - Anything which seperates system and surrounding is called boundary.

- There can be : Real and Imaginary boundaries, Rigid and Flexible boundaries, Conducting(diathermic) and Non-Conducting(adiabatic) boundaries, etc.

---

## Types of System

1. **Open System** - System which can exchange energy and matter both with the surroundings.

    eg :  living organisms, air in open container.

2. **Closed System** - System which can only exchange energy and not matter.

    eg :  

3. **Isolated System** - System where there is no exhange